translate ticdc architecture and overview (#11574)
pingcap/docs: ticdc/ticdc-architecture.md

---
title: Architecture and Principles of TiCDC
summary: Learn the architecture and working principles of TiCDC.
---

# Architecture and Principles of TiCDC

## TiCDC architecture

Consisting of multiple TiCDC nodes, a TiCDC cluster uses a distributed and stateless architecture. The design of TiCDC and its components is as follows:

![TiCDC architecture](/media/ticdc/ticdc-architecture-1.jpg)

## TiCDC components

> In the preceding diagram, a TiCDC cluster consists of multiple nodes running TiCDC instances. Each TiCDC instance carries a Capture process. One of the Capture processes is elected as the owner Capture, which is responsible for scheduling workload, replicating DDL statements, and performing other management tasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the preceding diagram, a TiCDC cluster consists of multiple nodes running TiCDC instances. Each TiCDC instance carries a Capture process. One of the Capture processes is elected as the owner Capture, which is responsible for scheduling workload, replicating DDL statements, and performing management tasks.
```

- Puller: pulls DDL and row changes from TiKV nodes.
- Sorter: sorts the changes received from TiKV nodes in ascending order of timestamps.
- Mounter: converts the changes into a format that TiCDC sink can process based on the schema information.
- Sink: replicates the changes to the downstream system.

To realize high availability, each TiCDC cluster runs multiple TiCDC nodes. These nodes regularly report their status to the etcd cluster in PD, and elect one of the nodes as the owner of the TiCDC cluster. The owner node schedules data based on the status stored in etcd and writes the scheduling results to etcd. The Processor completes tasks according to the status in etcd. If the node running the Processor fails, the cluster schedules tables to other nodes. If the owner node fails, the Capture processes in other nodes will elect a new owner. See the following figure:

![TiCDC architecture](/media/ticdc/ticdc-architecture-3.PNG)

## Changefeeds and tasks

> Changefeed and Task in TiCDC are two logical concepts. The former is the way to assign replication tasks. The latter is the subtask name of a split replication task. The specific description is as follows:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Changefeed and Task in TiCDC are two logical concepts. The specific description is as follows:
```

> - Changefeed: Represents a replication task. It carries the information of the tables to be replicated, the downstream information, and other configuration information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Changefeed: Represents a replication task. It carries the information of the tables to be replicated, the downstream information.
```

- Task: After TiCDC receives a replication task, it splits this task into several subtasks. Such a subtask is called Task. These Tasks are assigned to the Capture processes of the TiCDC nodes for processing.

For example:

```
cdc cli changefeed create --pd=http://10.0.10.25:2379 --sink-uri="kafka://127.0.0.1:9092/cdc-test?kafka-version=2.4.0&partition-num=6&max-message-bytes=67108864&replication-factor=1"
cat changefeed.toml
......
[sink]
dispatchers = [
    {matcher = ['test1.tab1', 'test2.tab2'], topic = "{schema}_{table}"},
    {matcher = ['test3.tab3', 'test4.tab4'], topic = "{schema}_{table}"},
]
```

For a detailed description of the parameters in the preceding `cdc cli changefeed create` command, see [TiCDC Changefeed Configuration Parameters](/ticdc/ticdc-changefeed-config.md).

The preceding `cdc cli changefeed create` command creates a changefeed task that replicates `test1.tab1`, `test1.tab2`, `test3.tab3`, and `test4.tab4` to the Kafka cluster. The processing flow after TiCDC receives this command is as follows:

1. TiCDC sends this task to the owner Capture process.

> 2. The owner Capture process saves information about this replication task in etcd in PD.

Author: ```suggestion
2. The owner Capture process saves information about this changefeed task in etcd in PD.
```

> 1. TiCDC sends this task to the owner Capture process.

Reviewer: why not use changefeed？

> 3. The owner Capture process splits the replication task into several Tasks and notifies other Capture processes of the Tasks to be completed.

Author: ```suggestion
3. The owner Capture process splits the changefeed task into several Tasks and notifies other Capture processes of the Tasks to be completed.
```

> 2. The owner Capture process saves information about this replication task in etcd in PD.

Reviewer: why not use changefeed？

- Changefeed: A task that replicates data from an upstream TiDB cluster to a downstream system. A changefeed contains multiple Tasks, and each Task is processed by a Capture node.

### Timestamp-related concepts

TiCDC introduces a series of timestamps (TS) to indicate the status of data replication. These timestamps are used to ensure that data is replicated to the downstream at least once and that the consistency of data is guaranteed.

#### ResolvedTS

This timestamp exists in both TiKV and TiCDC.

- ResolvedTS in TiKV: Represents the start time of the earliest transaction in a Region leader, that is, `ResolvedTS` = max(`ResolvedTS`, min(`StartTS`)). Because a TiDB cluster contains multiple TiKV nodes, the minimum ResolvedTS of the Region leader on all TiKV nodes is called the Global ResolvedTS. The TiDB cluster ensures that all transactions before the Global ResolvedTS are committed. Alternatively, you can assume that there are no uncommitted transactions before this timestamp.

- ResolvedTS in TiCDC:

>     - table ResolvedTS: Each table has a table-level ResolvedTS, which indicates the minimum data changes to this table received from TiKV. To make it simple, this timestamp is the same as the minimum value of the ResolvedTS of all Regions corresponding to this table on the TiKV node.

Reviewer: 重点就是表达，小于这个线的数据都已经收到

    - global ResolvedTS: The minimum ResolvedTS of all Processors on all TiCDC nodes. Because each TiCDC node has one or more Processors, each Processor corresponds to multiple table pipelines.

    For TiCDC, the ResolvedTS sent by TiKV is a special event in the format of `<resolvedTS: timestamp>`. In general, the ResolvedTS satisfies the following constraints:

    ```

>     table resolved TS >= local resolved TS >= global Resolved TS

Reviewer: what's local resolve TS?

    ```

#### CheckpointTS

> This timestamp exists only in TiCDC. It means that the data changes occur before this timestamp have been replicated to the downstream system.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This timestamp exists only in TiCDC. It means that the data changes that occur before this timestamp have been replicated to the downstream system.
```

> - table CheckpointTS: Because TiCDC replicates data in tables, the table checkpointTS indicates all data that smaller than CheckpointTS has been replicated at the table level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- table CheckpointTS: Because TiCDC replicates data in tables, the table checkpointTS indicates all data changes that occur before CheckpointTS have been replicated at the table level.
```

> - processor CheckpointTS: Indicates the minimum table CheckpointTS on the Processor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- processor CheckpointTS: Indicates the minimum table CheckpointTS on a Processor.
```

> - global CheckpointTS: Indicates the minimum CheckpointTS among all Processors .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- global CheckpointTS: Indicates the minimum CheckpointTS among all Processors.
```

> - Table checkpointTS: Because TiCDC replicates data in tables, the table checkpointTS indicates the minimum data that has been replicated at the table level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Table checkpointTS: Because TiCDC replicates data in tables, the table checkpointTS indicates the data order than checkpointTS that has been replicated at the table level.
```

Reviewer: 不够准确，应该是”最大的并且小于它的数据都已经被复制到下游“

Generally, a checkpoint TS satisfies the following constraint:

```
table checkpoint TS >= local checkpoint TS >= global checkpoint TS
```

The complete constraint is as follows if we also include ResolvedTS:

```

> table resolved TS >= local resolved TS >= global Resolved TS >= table checkpoint TS >= local checkpoint TS >= global checkpoint TS

Reviewer: why `global Resolved TS` >= `table checkpoint TS`?

```

> After data changes and transactions are committed, the resolvedTS on the TiKV node will continue to advance, and the Puller module on the TiCDC node keeps receiving data pushed by TiKV. The Puller module also decides whether to scan incremental data based on the received information, which ensures that all data changes are sent to the TiCDC node.

Reviewer: what's is `the received information`?

The Sorter module sorts data received by the Puller module in ascending order according to the timestamp. This process ensures data consistency at the table level. Next, the Mounter module assembles the data changes from the upstream into the format that the Sink module can consume, and sends it to the Sink module. The Sink module replicates the data changes between the checkpointTS and the ResolvedTS to the downstream in the order of the TS, and advancing the checkpointTS.

The preceding sections only cover data changes of DML statements and do not include DDL statements. The following sections introduce the timestamp related to DDL statements.

#### Barrier TS

Barrier TS is generated when a DDL statement is executed or a Syncpoint is used.

> - This timestamp ensures that all changes before this DDL statement are replicated to the downstream. After this DDL is executed, data changes are replicated again. Because DDL statements are processed by the Capture Owner, the Barrier TS corresponding to the DDL statement is only generated by the Processor thread of the owner node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- This timestamp ensures that all changes before this DDL statement are replicated to the downstream. After this DDL statement is executed and replicated, TiCDC starts replicating other data changes. Because DDL statements are processed by the Capture Owner, the Barrier TS corresponding to a DDL statement is only generated by the Processor thread of the owner node.
```

> - Syncpoint Barrier TS is also a timestamp. When you enable the Syncpoint feature of TiCDC, a Barrier TS is generated by TiCDC according to the `sync-point-interval` you specified. When all table changes before this Barrier TS are replicated, TiCDC records the global Checkpoint downstream, from which data replication continues next time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Syncpoint Barrier TS is also a timestamp. When you enable the Syncpoint feature of TiCDC, a Barrier TS is generated by TiCDC according to the `sync-point-interval` you specified. When all table changes before this Barrier TS are replicated, TiCDC records the global Checkpoint in downstream, from which data replication continues next time.
```

> - sync point Barrier TS is also a timestamp. When you enable the Syncpoint feature of TiCDC, a Barrier TS is generated by TiCDC according to the interval you specified. When all tables are replicated to this Barrier TS, record the time point, from which data replication continues next time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Syncpoint Barrier TS is also a timestamp. When you enable the Syncpoint feature of TiCDC, a Barrier TS is generated by TiCDC according to the `sync-point-interval` you specified. When all table changes before this Barrier TS are replicated, TiCDC will record the time point, from which data replication continues next time.
```

Reviewer 2: 中文里的“当所有的表都同步到了这个 Barrier TS 之后”不太好理解

> After a Barrier TS is generated, TiCDC only replicates data changes that occur before this Barrier TS to downstream. Then TiCDC checks whether all target data has been replicated by comparing the global CheckpointTS and Barrier TS. If global CheckpointTS equals to Barrier TS, TiCDC continues replication after performing a designated operation (such as executing a DDL statement or recording the global CheckpointTS downstream). Otherwise, TiCDC waits for all data changes that occur before Barrier TS to be replicated to the downstream.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After a Barrier TS is generated, TiCDC only replicates data changes that occur before this Barrier TS to downstream. Then TiCDC checks whether all target data has been replicated by comparing the global CheckpointTS and Barrier TS. If global CheckpointTS equals to Barrier TS, TiCDC continues replication after performing a designated operation (such as executing a DDL statement or recording the global CheckpointTS in downstream). Otherwise, TiCDC waits for all data changes that occur before Barrier TS to be replicated to the downstream.
```

> TiCDC determines whether data has been replicated to Barrier TS by comparing the global checkpoint TS and Barrier TS. If global checkpoint TS equals to Barrier TS, all tables have advanced to Barrier TS. If global checkpoint TS does not equal to Barrier TS, there are tables that have not advanced to the Barrier TS. In this case, the Barrier TS will not be updated, and no resolved TS of a table will exceed Barrier TS, that is, no table's check point TS will exceed Barrier TS.

Reviewer: It make me confusing `no resolved TS of a table will exceed Barrier TS`, why?

> TiCDC determines whether data has been replicated to Barrier TS by comparing the global checkpoint TS and Barrier TS. If global checkpoint TS equals to Barrier TS, all tables have advanced to Barrier TS. If global checkpoint TS does not equal to Barrier TS, there are tables that have not advanced to the Barrier TS. In this case, the Barrier TS will not be updated, and no resolved TS of a table will exceed Barrier TS, that is, no table's check point TS will exceed Barrier TS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
TiCDC determines whether data has been replicated to Barrier TS by comparing the global checkpoint TS and Barrier TS. If global checkpoint TS equals Barrier TS, all table changes before Barrier TS have been replicated. If global checkpoint TS does not equal Barrier TS, all tables have advanced to Barrier TS. In this case, the Barrier TS will not be updated, and no resolved TS of a table will exceed Barrier TS, that is, no table's check point TS will exceed Barrier TS.
```

## Major processes

> This section describes the major processes of TiCDC to help you better understand its working principles.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section describes the major processes of TiCDC to help you better understand its principles.
```

### Start TiCDC

> - Start a TiCDC node that is not an owner:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- For a TiCDC node that is not an owner, it works as follows:
```

>     1. Start the Capture process.
>     2. Start the Processor.
>     3. Receive the Task scheduling command executed by the Owner.
>     4. Start or stop tablePipeline according to the scheduling command.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. Starts the Capture process.
    2. Starts the Processor.
    3. Receives the Task scheduling command executed by the Owner.
    4. Starts or stops tablePipeline according to the scheduling command.
```

> - Start an owner TiCDC node:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- For an owner TiCDC node, it works as follows:
```

>     1. Start the Capture process.
>     2. A node is elected as the Owner and the corresponding thread is started.
>     3. Read the changefeed information.
>     4. Start changefeed management logic.
>     5. Read the schema information in TiKV according to the changefeed configuration and the latest checkpointTS to determine the tables to be replicated.
>     6. Read the list of tables currently replicated by each Processor and distribute the tables to be added.
>     7. Update the replication progress.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. Starts the Capture process.
    2. The node is elected as the Owner and the corresponding thread is started.
    3. Reads the changefeed information.
    4. Starts changefeed management logic.
    5. Reads the schema information in TiKV according to the changefeed configuration and the latest checkpointTS to determine the tables to be replicated.
    6. Reads the list of tables currently replicated by each Processor and distributes the tables to be added.
    7. Updates the replication progress.
```
